My master thesis during my MSc at the University of Lausanne. It is elaborated in Matlab and Dynare in 2013. It was graded with a 6.0, the highest grade. The abstract of the thesis follows.

The present paper is based on the work of Schmitt-Grohé and Uribe (2012) which proposes a downward-rigid wages model and studies the effects of exogenous shocks in an economy, when the latter is a member of a currency union. In the current paper I extend this model to allow for labour movement inside a two-country currency union and I study the effects of immigrants’ degree of integration in the foreign society, denoted as δ, on the propagation of domestic exogenous shocks and their spillover effects in the foreign country, under flexible and downward-rigid wages. The value of δ is taken to be the share of foreign-earned income that immigrants spend in the foreign country, while the simulated exogenous shocks in the domestic economy consist of shocks in the tradable good’s endowment and in labour productivity. I conclude that under downward-rigid wages the effect of δ is almost negligible. Under flexible wages, the effects of δ affect the propagation and spillover of domestic shocks but also depend on their type. Following a shock in productivity, I find a monotonic relation between δ and the effects it produces. However, this is not always true for a shock on the tradable endowment. Nonetheless, the larger δ is, the smaller is the variance in observed changes in the consumption levels of both goods in both economies.